backend/README.md, before:

# dumpsheet
Phoenix rebirth from ashes of Voxana.ai

# OG VOXANA README
## Local Setup
Setup Python your preferred way (virtualenv recommended) just ask GPT that `pyenv create virtualenv`


### Run tests
For now, most of the Python files have a `if __name__ == "__main__":` which essentially runs a test.
So you can test the lambda logic by:
```bash
# inside the backend/ directory
pyenv virtualenv 3.9.16 dumpsheet
# you might need to run `source ~/.bash_profile` for the new PYENV settings
pyenv activate dumpsheet  # just making sure the install is fine
# for research/requirements.txt or chromedriver/requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements/local.txt -r requirements/common.txt
# setup pre-commit checks
pre-commit install
pre-commit run --all-files  # check if works
# for IDE like intelliJ, you would need to setup the VirtualEnv
echo "$VIRTUAL_ENV/python"
# Sth like /Users/petercsiba/.pyenv/versions/3.9.16/envs/backend/python
# Copy this into PyCharm -> Settings -> ... -> Python Interpreter -> Add Local Interpreter

# you would need to fill in some .env variables for local
cp .env.template .env
# try running some of our many main functions
python -m app.app
```
TLDR; The `backend` project is now installed as a module through `setup.py`, so we can conclude research like:
```bash
python -m research.action_based_transition
```

### Setup Supabase
Pretty much a relevant summary of https://supabase.com/docs/guides/getting-started/local-development
The configuration will live in `backend/supabase` (part of .gitignore).

```shell
supabase init
# PLEASE do NOT store your DB password here - keep using chrome or Doppler.
supabase link --project-ref kubtuncgxkefdlzdnnue
# Get remote migrations
supabase db remote commit
# Start bunch of stuff (you will need Docker)
supabase start
```

### Setup Other Requirements
* ffmpeg
* colima



## Development Workflow

### Committing Changes
We use `pre-commit` to run flake8, isort, black.
BEWARE: Sometimes `black` and `isort` disagree. Then:
* Run `pre-commit run --all-files` - this runs it clean without stash / unstash.
* If it passes, run `git status`. Likely the problem files aren't stage for commit (or have unstaged changes).
You might want to default to always do `-a` for `git commit`.

Below is pretty much filtered https://supabase.com/docs/guides/getting-started/local-development#database-migrations
### Migrations
There are a few ways, the best feels like:
* Create a new table in Supabase UI: http://localhost:54323/project/default/editor
* MAKE SURE it has RLS enabled, otherwise the new table has public access (yeah :/).
  * Easiest likely with `ALTER TABLE your_table_name ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;` (alternatively with their UI)
  * Note that if the RLS policy is empty, then backend can still query it either via Service KEY or directly DB password.
* Get the definition of it
* Potentially add stuff (like multicolumn indexes)
```shell
# Navigate to ./backend
# They might have switched `supabase` to `npx supabase`
supabase migration new my_new_table_or_my_new_column

# (optional) in case the migration wasn't yet applied through the UI (or psql)
# this applies all migrations after it deletes the DB (you can persist fixtures with seed.sql see below)
supabase db reset  

# generate new python models (requires local supabase running see Setup Supabase)
# NOTE: Potential setup BUG when it replaces to single quotes, workaround is to run this from a local clone of `supawee`.
supawee database/models.py --circular_deps_fields merged_into
# do some testing
# then push migrations to be applied in prod
supabase db push

# optional pro-tip: if you have cached a bunch of stuff, you would like to dump your DB into `seed.sql`
# --inserts likely required for `supabase db reset`
export PGPASSWORD=postgres; pg_dump -h localhost -p 54322 -U postgres -d postgres --schema=public -F p --inserts > supabase/seed.sql
```

### Running API Server Locally
```shell
# Starts the local Supabase stack (Postgres, API, Auth etc.)
npx supabase start
# Run the FastAPI server - you can test the endpoints directly (shell, Postman), or connect frontend to it.
uvicorn api.app:app --reload --port 8080
```
## Deployment

### Set up AWS config
```shell
# We used to have SSO but felt like overkill so now back to IAM with Access Key
aws configure --profile PowerUserAccess-831154875375
# AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID and AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY you get from Admin (or kick Peter to extend perms)
# default region is us-east-1
```
More in https://www.notion.so/AWS-83f07c0ce85d4e2f8cffbc1bf3a8d700?pvs=4#f9c71df32f024c758e523ca99980dd72

### Push New Image
Yeah hardcoded stuff - but it works!
```shell
aws aws ecr get-login-password --region us-east-1 --profile PowerUserAccess-831154875375 | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin 831154875375.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com
docker build -t 831154875375.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/draft-your-follow-ups .
docker push 831154875375.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/draft-your-follow-ups:latest
```
then you will need to deploy Lambda (below).

### Deploy Lambda (manual)
A few manual clicks in AWS console:
* Go to Lambda
* Click on deploy new image
* First time, make sure you build the same architecture as you deploy (M1+ is `arm`)
`docker inspect --format '{{.Architecture}}' 831154875375.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/draft-your-follow-ups`
* Click through to find the newest
* You can re-run it by re-uploading to S3 some of the previous files.

### Deploy SAM (SUCH A MISTAKE TO USE THIS, TODO: migrate to FastAPI and Fly.io)
First make sure you have the CLI:
```shell
pip install aws-sam-cli --no-build-isolation
```
the follow sam_app/README.md

# Oncall
* Usage https://platform.openai.com/account/usage

# Tough problems with setup

### Supabase auth.users weird schema
Can propagate through many `BaseUser` fields suddenly missing after `./database/generate_models.sh`,
and later propagated through `email_change_token` field to be unknown.
Although it feels like supabase problem, the `auth` tables are managed by GoTrue,
and the `gotrue` server would be running locally after `supabase start`.

The problem can be:
* GoTrue version changes (unlikely)
* Local Supabase stack weird state
For the second, do `docker ps`, you might see that `Restarting` in some services:
```shell
4f8074daf143   public.ecr.aws/supabase/gotrue:v2.62.1            "gotrue"                 6 days ago   Restarting (1) 6 seconds ago
```
when you inspect the logs
```shell
{"level":"fatal","msg":"running db migrations: Migrator: problem creating schema migrations: couldn't start a new transaction: could not create new transaction: failed to connect to `host=supabase_db_backend user=supabase_auth_admin database=postgres`: hostname resolving error (lookup supabase_db_backend on 127.0.0.11:53: no such host)","time":"2023-07-24T22:57:28Z"}
```

Unsure why this happens, but I ended up nuking local Docker and rebuilding it:
```shell
docker stop $(docker ps -a -q)
docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)
docker system prune -a # especially in case you running out of storage
```

### Runing x86_64 (i.e. amd64) containers locally on M1/M2
The core problem is that some tools force our base image for deployment, e.g.:
* AWS Lambda only supports non-mainstream Linux (either python-alpine or amazon-linux)
* `chromedriver` requires Ubuntu or Debian (learned the hard way see `fails/`)

BUT you can NOT build / run across architectures, i.e. if you have M2 (`arm`)
and your target image is `amd` then you will get weird failures.

Obviously, Docker should make this easier.
I personally use `colima` over Docker Desktop (which kills battery)
For `colima` you need to install Docker `buildx` manually:
```shell
ARCH=arm64 # change to 'amd64' for non M[12]
VERSION=v0.10.4
curl -LO https://github.com/docker/buildx/releases/download/${VERSION}/buildx-${VERSION}.darwin-${ARCH}
mkdir -p ~/.docker/cli-plugins
mv buildx-${VERSION}.darwin-${ARCH} ~/.docker/cli-plugins/docker-buildx
chmod +x ~/.docker/cli-plugins/docker-buildx
docker buildx version # verify installation
```
https://dev.to/maxtacu/cross-platform-container-images-with-buildx-and-colima-4ibj

NOTE: `colima start` needs to run every time you restart your computer (or you add autostart).

NOTE: Apply out of box for backwards compatibility supports `arch -x86_64`,
which runs code on the previous architecture.

Now you can build images for multiple platforms at once, wowz amaze:
```shell
docker buildx build --platform linux/arm64 -t chrome_webscraper chrome_webscraper/ --load
# If you're building an image for multiple platforms using the --platform
# flag with more than one target platform, you should use --push flag instead of --load
# to push the resulting multi-platform image to a Docker registry.
docker buildx build --platform linux/amd64,linux/arm64 -t chrome_webscraper chrome_webscraper/ --push
```

Running them is a different story, I couldn't figure it out so I just have workarounds :/
For:
* `chromedriver`, just download arm64 version https://sites.google.com/chromium.org/driver/downloads
* copy to `/usr/local/bin/chromedriver`
* when first run, Apple will freak out, go to Mac Settings -> Privacy & Security -> Security Settings
* click allow
* run again

```shell
 => [linux/amd64  3/10] RUN apt-get update     && apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends     wget     curl     unzip
 => => # Preparing to unpack .../07-ucf_3.0038+nmu1_all.deb ...
 => => # Moving old data out of the way
 => => # Unpacking ucf (3.0038+nmu1) ...
 => => # Selecting previously unselected package libpcre2-8-0:amd64.
 => => # Preparing to unpack .../08-libpcre2-8-0_10.32-5+deb10u1_amd64.deb ...
 => => # Unpacking libpcre2-8-0:amd64 (10.32-5+deb10u1) ...
 => [linux/arm64  4/10] RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y chromium
 => => # Preparing to unpack .../029-libcroco3_0.6.12-3_arm64.deb ...
 => => # Unpacking libcroco3:arm64 (0.6.12-3) ...
 => => # Selecting previously unselected package fontconfig.
 => => # Preparing to unpack .../030-fontconfig_2.13.1-2_arm64.deb ...
 => => # Unpacking fontconfig (2.13.1-2) ...
 => => # Selecting previousl
```

### Running the Lambda locally
This is tricky for our case as it's triggered by an email stored in S3,
so prefer `python -m app.app`.
```shell
docker build -t hello-world .
docker run -p 9000:8080 hello-world
curl -XPOST "http://localhost:9000/2015-03-31/functions/function/invocations" -d '{}'
```

### General Learnings Dealing with Setups (Docker)
1. **Architecture compatibility:**
Your local machine uses an ARM-based architecture (Apple M1 chip), whereas most applications and Docker images are built for x86_64 architectures. This can lead to compatibility issues, such as executable files not running correctly.

2. **Cross-compilation and emulation:**
Docker provides a solution for running images of a different architecture via QEMU and the buildx plugin. This allows you to build and run x86_64 Docker images on an ARM machine.

3. **AWS Lambda restrictions:**
AWS Lambda has certain limitations, such as only supporting specific base images. AWS recently introduced support for container images, but there are still some restrictions to keep in mind.

4. **Chromedriver and Google Chrome compatibility:**
You need to ensure that the versions of Chromedriver and Google Chrome installed in the Docker image are compatible. Also, remember that you need to install x86_64 versions of these applications due to the architecture issues mentioned above.

5. **Installing Google Chrome:**
Depending on the base image, different methods may be needed to install Google Chrome. For instance, Ubuntu-based images can use the APT package manager, while Amazon Linux requires a different approach.

6. **Choosing the right base image:**
For AWS Lambda, you need to choose a base image that is compatible with the AWS Lambda runtime environment. For more permissive environments like Amazon Fargate, you can choose a wider range of base images.

7. **Always test your Dockerfile:**
After making changes to your Dockerfile, you should always build and test the Docker image to make sure everything works as expected. Make use of commands such as `chromedriver --version` and `chromium --version` in your Dockerfile to ensure that the required applications are installed correctly.

Commit message:

[auth] Add Supabase GoTrue JWT Auth to FastAPI endpoint, sign in anonymously when user not present

backend/README.md, after:

# dumpsheet
Phoenix rebirth from ashes of Voxana.ai

# OG VOXANA README
## Local Setup
Setup Python your preferred way (virtualenv recommended) just ask GPT that `pyenv create virtualenv`


### Run tests
For now, most of the Python files have a `if __name__ == "__main__":` which essentially runs a test.
So you can test the lambda logic by:
```bash
# inside the backend/ directory
pyenv virtualenv 3.9.16 dumpsheet
# you might need to run `source ~/.bash_profile` for the new PYENV settings
pyenv activate dumpsheet  # just making sure the install is fine
# for research/requirements.txt or chromedriver/requirements.txt
pip install -r requirements/local.txt -r requirements/common.txt
# setup pre-commit checks
pre-commit install
pre-commit run --all-files  # check if works
# for IDE like intelliJ, you would need to setup the VirtualEnv
echo "$VIRTUAL_ENV/python"
# Sth like /Users/petercsiba/.pyenv/versions/3.9.16/envs/backend/python
# Copy this into PyCharm -> Settings -> ... -> Python Interpreter -> Add Local Interpreter

# you would need to fill in some .env variables for local
cp .env.template .env
# try running some of our many main functions
python -m app.app
```
TLDR; The `backend` project is now installed as a module through `setup.py`, so we can conclude research like:
```bash
python -m research.action_based_transition
```

### Setup Supabase
Pretty much a relevant summary of https://supabase.com/docs/guides/getting-started/local-development
The configuration will live in `backend/supabase` (part of .gitignore).

```shell
supabase init
# PLEASE do NOT store your DB password here - keep using chrome or Doppler.
supabase link --project-ref kubtuncgxkefdlzdnnue
# Get remote migrations
supabase db remote commit
# Start bunch of stuff (you will need Docker)
supabase start
```

### Setup Other Requirements
* ffmpeg
* colima



## Development Workflow
### Running Tests
```shell
# TODO(P2, devx): Figure out why it needs PYTHONPATH
#   conftest.py:4: in <module>
#    from common.config import ENV, ENV_LOCAL, ENV_TEST
#E   ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'common'
PYTHONPATH=/Users/petercsiba/code/dumpsheet/backend pytest tests/api/test_auth.py
```

### Committing Changes
We use `pre-commit` to run flake8, isort, black.
BEWARE: Sometimes `black` and `isort` disagree. Then:
* Run `pre-commit run --all-files` - this runs it clean without stash / unstash.
* If it passes, run `git status`. Likely the problem files aren't stage for commit (or have unstaged changes).
You might want to default to always do `-a` for `git commit`.

Below is pretty much filtered https://supabase.com/docs/guides/getting-started/local-development#database-migrations
### Migrations
There are a few ways, the best feels like:
* Create a new table in Supabase UI: http://localhost:54323/project/default/editor
* MAKE SURE it has RLS enabled, otherwise the new table has public access (yeah :/).
  * Easiest likely with `ALTER TABLE your_table_name ENABLE ROW LEVEL SECURITY;` (alternatively with their UI)
  * Note that if the RLS policy is empty, then backend can still query it either via Service KEY or directly DB password.
* Get the definition of it
* Potentially add stuff (like multicolumn indexes)
```shell
# Navigate to ./backend
# They might have switched `supabase` to `npx supabase`
supabase migration new my_new_table_or_my_new_column

# (optional) in case the migration wasn't yet applied through the UI (or psql)
# this applies all migrations after it deletes the DB (you can persist fixtures with seed.sql see below)
supabase db reset  

# generate new python models (requires local supabase running see Setup Supabase)
# NOTE: Potential setup BUG when it replaces to single quotes, workaround is to run this from a local clone of `supawee`.
supawee database/models.py --circular_deps_fields merged_into
# do some testing
# then push migrations to be applied in prod
supabase db push

# optional pro-tip: if you have cached a bunch of stuff, you would like to dump your DB into `seed.sql`
# --inserts likely required for `supabase db reset`
export PGPASSWORD=postgres; pg_dump -h localhost -p 54322 -U postgres -d postgres --schema=public -F p --inserts > supabase/seed.sql
```

### Running API Server Locally
```shell
# Starts the local Supabase stack (Postgres, API, Auth etc.)
npx supabase start
# Run the FastAPI server - you can test the endpoints directly (shell, Postman), or connect frontend to it.
uvicorn api.app:app --reload --port 8080
# For authenticated endpoints, you can test with passing the JWT token in a cookie
ACCESS_TOKEN=# see create_test_jwt (it depends on your GOTRUE_JWT_SECRET)
curl -X GET http://localhost:8080/upload/voice --cookie "access_token=${ACCESS_TOKEN}"

# For local supabase auth, you should use the following in your .env:
# GOTRUE_URL=http://127.0.0.1:54321/auth/v1
```
## Deployment

### Set up AWS config
```shell
# We used to have SSO but felt like overkill so now back to IAM with Access Key
aws configure --profile PowerUserAccess-831154875375
# AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID and AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY you get from Admin (or kick Peter to extend perms)
# default region is us-east-1
```
More in https://www.notion.so/AWS-83f07c0ce85d4e2f8cffbc1bf3a8d700?pvs=4#f9c71df32f024c758e523ca99980dd72

### Push New Image
Yeah hardcoded stuff - but it works!
```shell
aws aws ecr get-login-password --region us-east-1 --profile PowerUserAccess-831154875375 | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin 831154875375.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com
docker build -t 831154875375.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/draft-your-follow-ups .
docker push 831154875375.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/draft-your-follow-ups:latest
```
then you will need to deploy Lambda (below).

### Deploy Lambda (manual)
A few manual clicks in AWS console:
* Go to Lambda
* Click on deploy new image
* First time, make sure you build the same architecture as you deploy (M1+ is `arm`)
`docker inspect --format '{{.Architecture}}' 831154875375.dkr.ecr.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/draft-your-follow-ups`
* Click through to find the newest
* You can re-run it by re-uploading to S3 some of the previous files.

### Deploy SAM (SUCH A MISTAKE TO USE THIS, TODO: migrate to FastAPI and Fly.io)
First make sure you have the CLI:
```shell
pip install aws-sam-cli --no-build-isolation
```
the follow sam_app/README.md

# Oncall
* Usage https://platform.openai.com/account/usage

# Tough problems with setup

### Supabase auth.users weird schema
Can propagate through many `BaseUser` fields suddenly missing after `./database/generate_models.sh`,
and later propagated through `email_change_token` field to be unknown.
Although it feels like supabase problem, the `auth` tables are managed by GoTrue,
and the `gotrue` server would be running locally after `supabase start`.

The problem can be:
* GoTrue version changes (unlikely)
* Local Supabase stack weird state
For the second, do `docker ps`, you might see that `Restarting` in some services:
```shell
4f8074daf143   public.ecr.aws/supabase/gotrue:v2.62.1            "gotrue"                 6 days ago   Restarting (1) 6 seconds ago
```
when you inspect the logs
```shell
{"level":"fatal","msg":"running db migrations: Migrator: problem creating schema migrations: couldn't start a new transaction: could not create new transaction: failed to connect to `host=supabase_db_backend user=supabase_auth_admin database=postgres`: hostname resolving error (lookup supabase_db_backend on 127.0.0.11:53: no such host)","time":"2023-07-24T22:57:28Z"}
```

Unsure why this happens, but I ended up nuking local Docker and rebuilding it:
```shell
docker stop $(docker ps -a -q)
docker rm $(docker ps -a -q)
docker system prune -a # especially in case you running out of storage
```

### Runing x86_64 (i.e. amd64) containers locally on M1/M2
The core problem is that some tools force our base image for deployment, e.g.:
* AWS Lambda only supports non-mainstream Linux (either python-alpine or amazon-linux)
* `chromedriver` requires Ubuntu or Debian (learned the hard way see `fails/`)

BUT you can NOT build / run across architectures, i.e. if you have M2 (`arm`)
and your target image is `amd` then you will get weird failures.

Obviously, Docker should make this easier.
I personally use `colima` over Docker Desktop (which kills battery)
For `colima` you need to install Docker `buildx` manually:
```shell
ARCH=arm64 # change to 'amd64' for non M[12]
VERSION=v0.10.4
curl -LO https://github.com/docker/buildx/releases/download/${VERSION}/buildx-${VERSION}.darwin-${ARCH}
mkdir -p ~/.docker/cli-plugins
mv buildx-${VERSION}.darwin-${ARCH} ~/.docker/cli-plugins/docker-buildx
chmod +x ~/.docker/cli-plugins/docker-buildx
docker buildx version # verify installation
```
https://dev.to/maxtacu/cross-platform-container-images-with-buildx-and-colima-4ibj

NOTE: `colima start` needs to run every time you restart your computer (or you add autostart).

NOTE: Apply out of box for backwards compatibility supports `arch -x86_64`,
which runs code on the previous architecture.

Now you can build images for multiple platforms at once, wowz amaze:
```shell
docker buildx build --platform linux/arm64 -t chrome_webscraper chrome_webscraper/ --load
# If you're building an image for multiple platforms using the --platform
# flag with more than one target platform, you should use --push flag instead of --load
# to push the resulting multi-platform image to a Docker registry.
docker buildx build --platform linux/amd64,linux/arm64 -t chrome_webscraper chrome_webscraper/ --push
```

Running them is a different story, I couldn't figure it out so I just have workarounds :/
For:
* `chromedriver`, just download arm64 version https://sites.google.com/chromium.org/driver/downloads
* copy to `/usr/local/bin/chromedriver`
* when first run, Apple will freak out, go to Mac Settings -> Privacy & Security -> Security Settings
* click allow
* run again

```shell
 => [linux/amd64  3/10] RUN apt-get update     && apt-get install -y --no-install-recommends     wget     curl     unzip
 => => # Preparing to unpack .../07-ucf_3.0038+nmu1_all.deb ...
 => => # Moving old data out of the way
 => => # Unpacking ucf (3.0038+nmu1) ...
 => => # Selecting previously unselected package libpcre2-8-0:amd64.
 => => # Preparing to unpack .../08-libpcre2-8-0_10.32-5+deb10u1_amd64.deb ...
 => => # Unpacking libpcre2-8-0:amd64 (10.32-5+deb10u1) ...
 => [linux/arm64  4/10] RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y chromium
 => => # Preparing to unpack .../029-libcroco3_0.6.12-3_arm64.deb ...
 => => # Unpacking libcroco3:arm64 (0.6.12-3) ...
 => => # Selecting previously unselected package fontconfig.
 => => # Preparing to unpack .../030-fontconfig_2.13.1-2_arm64.deb ...
 => => # Unpacking fontconfig (2.13.1-2) ...
 => => # Selecting previousl
```

### Running the Lambda locally
This is tricky for our case as it's triggered by an email stored in S3,
so prefer `python -m app.app`.
```shell
docker build -t hello-world .
docker run -p 9000:8080 hello-world
curl -XPOST "http://localhost:9000/2015-03-31/functions/function/invocations" -d '{}'
```

### General Learnings Dealing with Setups (Docker)
1. **Architecture compatibility:**
Your local machine uses an ARM-based architecture (Apple M1 chip), whereas most applications and Docker images are built for x86_64 architectures. This can lead to compatibility issues, such as executable files not running correctly.

2. **Cross-compilation and emulation:**
Docker provides a solution for running images of a different architecture via QEMU and the buildx plugin. This allows you to build and run x86_64 Docker images on an ARM machine.

3. **AWS Lambda restrictions:**
AWS Lambda has certain limitations, such as only supporting specific base images. AWS recently introduced support for container images, but there are still some restrictions to keep in mind.

4. **Chromedriver and Google Chrome compatibility:**
You need to ensure that the versions of Chromedriver and Google Chrome installed in the Docker image are compatible. Also, remember that you need to install x86_64 versions of these applications due to the architecture issues mentioned above.

5. **Installing Google Chrome:**
Depending on the base image, different methods may be needed to install Google Chrome. For instance, Ubuntu-based images can use the APT package manager, while Amazon Linux requires a different approach.

6. **Choosing the right base image:**
For AWS Lambda, you need to choose a base image that is compatible with the AWS Lambda runtime environment. For more permissive environments like Amazon Fargate, you can choose a wider range of base images.

7. **Always test your Dockerfile:**
After making changes to your Dockerfile, you should always build and test the Docker image to make sure everything works as expected. Make use of commands such as `chromedriver --version` and `chromium --version` in your Dockerfile to ensure that the required applications are installed correctly.
